So where do we start when faced
with those kinds of challenges?
Cuz it really is overwhelming.
Well, this is where this idea of
minimal viable product comes in.
And I suspect most of you have heard
of minimal viable product, but
I do just wanna kinda give
my own definition of it.
So we're all talking from the same
song sheet or whatever the phrase is.
So minimal viable product is a product
version with enough features to attract
our early adopters and validate
the product idea in the development cycle,
gathering user feedback for
future iterations and improvements.
Now, minimal viable product,
there's been a bit of a reaction to it and
a bit of a kinda kick back against it,
because minimal
viable product became a synonym,
is that the right word?
Synonym for kind of half baked idea,
a half baked execution.
And that is not what a minimal
viable product should be.
It's the last bit that's
really the most important.
It's that opportunity to
gather user feedback for
future iterations and improvements.
If you launch a minimal viable product and
stop there,
then you've wasted your time, right?
If I'm faced with building a new app or
even doing a major overhaul
of an existing app, so
like the warehouse management system,
I did kind of that.
In that one, I did two pass-throughs
I did a quick cleanup, right?
Where I went through and I did
the hide remove hide and shrink thing.
And then once I'd done that, it was like,
okay, well we need to step back now and
look at this properly.
And I actually started by, well, okay,
let's create a minimal viable product.
And then we can start reintroducing some
of the functionality from what's there
at the moment,
as depending on what people scream for.
Cuz there's this presumption that,
if we take things away,
people are gonna freak out, right?
Well, let's find out,
let's build a minimum viable product
with all those things taken out, right?
And if people freak out,
we'll put it back in, but if they don't,
then we can save ourselves
a load of effort, right?
A minimal viable product is almost
always my starting point when I'm
doing product design.
And why do I start with
a minimal viable product?
Well, for a start, it reduces risk, right?
It validates the product concept with
minimal resources being invested in it,
and that lowers the risk of a large scale
failure, which costs organizations a lot.
And we as product designers need to
worry about that kind of stuff, right?
We need to care about risk and
those kinds of issues
not just can we create pretty interface,
right?
And it also allows you to
get to market faster, right?
Which is great, allows you quick
launch gaining a competitive edge it
being the first to market,
if it is first a market scenario.
But in any case, it's good to to get to
faster market because the faster you get
to market faster you can get feedback.
It also focuses you on the core what
really matters it helps identify and
refine that product value proposition.
What is essential to that product
what makes that product what it is?
Also if you need investors, it's great to
have a minimal viable product because it
gives you something tangible to show to
investors not only a tangible app but
also tangible user data on using that app.
It also allows you to learn through
the experience by having a real
experience of how the market's responding,
how users are responding,
how viable the product is,
it's an incredible learning experience.
And then finally, it allows you to target
your resources better and by informing
your decisions based on data and
user interactions and what you build next.
And how you scale up based on the feedback
you're getting from the market.
So actually, minimal viable products are a
really valuable tool if you are acting as
a product designer.
And there is this basic
kinda loop which you go
through with minimal viable products.
So essentially I use a garden analogy or
park analogy for some reason,
I don't know somewhere in the past I
decided to start using a park analogy and
it's kinda stuck ever since.
So I start off by building the simplest
version of the product as cheaply as
possible.
So, I grasp big area,
I shove in some trees and
that's my minimum viable product, right?
But then it's about listening
to the feedback you receive and
improving it over time.
So people might say, it's not very
colorful, right great fine, so
we'll put in some flowers to make the the
park more appealing and more engaging.
But also you're not just listening,
you're also adapting
the product to attract a different
audience and a broader audience.
So oftentimes say if you are creating that
task app I was talking about earlier,
the temptation is on building a task app
that can appeal to everybody, right?
But if you go down that line A, you're
gonna make your marketing really hard
because you're trying,
you're not targeting your marketing.
But B, you're gonna have to build
a wide range of different features.
But if you say right, I'm gonna start off
by building my minimum viable product
just for those stay-at-home moms.
Then you can rule out, for example,
building all that complex
project management stuff, right?
But it gives you a focus.
So for example,
in our park analogy, to begin with,
we just wanna get some users interacting
with it, we get a bit of feedback.
But then we might decide, okay,
we wanna attract old people, all right?
And we noticed that old people are coming
and they're coming to the park but
they're not staying very long, right?
And we want to get them on board, so
we're gonna put some benches out, right?
Then they'll sit down and
feed the birds and stay longer, so
I'm adapting to the audience
I'm trying to attract.
And then also I'm observing
people's behaviour as well.
So it might be that kids are coming along,
we want to attract kids and
get them staying longer.
So in that situation they seem to be
getting bored very easily when they
come to it,
they're not really staying very long.
So we might decide to create a boating
lake cuz I live in the 1950s,
so that kids can sail their toy boat.
Probably iPod point,
charge point that's what we need.
But you get what I'm getting at, really,
that is such a terrible analogy
I've used there, isn't it?
But anyway, so essentially you
build your minimal viable product,
you listen to feedback, you adapt based
on new audiences you want to attract and
you observe user behaviour,
that's the key takeaway here.
So the trouble is, is that so
many people just screw up minimal
viable products terribly, right?
And what they do is they do this, right?
So they try and
create far too many features and
they try and is it feasible, right?
Can we get this thing working, right?
And so they managed to get it working,
but of course,
if you've got a load of shitty kind
of features, then nobody's gonna stay
with that cuz it's not valuable,
it's not usable, it's not delightful.
What you need to be doing with
the minimal viable product is just build
a single feature and
just do it really really well.
So going back to that task app example,
that groceries buy all thing
just do that amazingly well.
And don't worry about all the the projects
and subprojects and re-occurring tasks and
that kind of, that can come later.